***ANSWER ALL QUESTIONS BELOW***

What is a programming language?
Answer:A programming language is a computer language programmers use to develop software programs, scripts, or
other sets of instructions for computers to execute.

What is a JDK composed of? Define each components?
Answer:JDK is Java Development Kit. Two popular components are JRE (Java Runtime Error) and JVM (Java Virtual Machine)

What is an IDE?
Answer:IDE (Integrated Development Environment) is a software application that enables users to write and debug
Java programs.

What are some of the most popular Java IDEs available in the market?
Answer:Some of the most popular Java IDEs are IntelliJ, Eclipse, XCode and etc

Explain the entire java life cycle.
Answer:The life cycle begins from the text editior which ends up being saved as a .java file. The .java file then
goes to the Java compiler which creates a .class file to be made. The .class file which now contains bytecodes is
now loaded into memory by the class loader. After confirming the bytecodes are valid the JVM will read the memory and
translate it to machine coad

What is a class?
Answer:Class is a template to build objects and define object data types and methods

What is an object?
Answer:An Object is a basic unit of Object-Oriented Programming and represents the real life entities.

What is the entry point of an application?
Answer:The main method would be the entry point

Why is the main() static?
Answer:Java main() method is always static, so that compiler can call it without the creation of an object
or before the creation of an object of the class.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Answer:Object Class

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Answer:The main difference between PATH and CLASSPATH is that  PATH is an environment variable that is used to locate
JDK binaries and use them to run java programs and compile the java source file. On the other
hand, CLASSPATH, an environment variable is used by System or Application ClassLoader to locate and load compile Java
bytecodes stored in the .class file.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Answer: Abstract class can have final, non-final, static and non-static variables.
The interface has only static and final variables.An interface can extend another Java interface only, an abstract
class can extend another Java class and implement multiple Java interfaces.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class? If yes or no, how would you do it?
Answer:You cannot create an object of abstract class or interface since they are
incomplete class

What is Access Modifier?
Answer:Access modifiers are keywords that  helps to restrict
the scope of a class, constructor, variable, method, or data member.

What is OOP? Define each OOP concept.
Answer:Object-Oriented programming (OOP) is a programming paradigm that relies on the concept of classes and objects.
The 5 OOP concepts are encapsulation, inheritance, polymorphism, class/objects and interfaces/methods

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Answer:A package is a namespace that organizes a set of related classes and interfaces.
The Java compiler automatically imports the java. lang package by default

What is an API? List some API's that you have used so far.
Answer:API stands for Application Programming Interface. One that has recently been shown is the JSON API

Does java support multiple inheritance? Why or why not?
Answer:Multiple inheritance is not supported by Java using classes ,
multiple inheritance is very complex. It creates problem during various operations like casting,
constructor chaining etc and the above all reason is that there are very few scenarios on which we actually need
multiple inheritance, so better to omit it for keeping the things simple and straightforward.

What is method overloading and when does it happen?
Answer:If a class has multiple methods having same name but different in parameters, it is known as Method Overloading.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle them.
Answer:Exception handling ensures that the flow of the program doesn't break when an exception occurs.
For example, if a program has bunch of statements and an exception occurs mid-way after executing certain statements
then the statements after the exception will not execute and the program will terminate abruptly.

What is static keyword? When and how do we use it?
Answer:t static is keyword is used to define the class member that can be used independently
of any object of that class

What is final keyword? When and how do we use it?
Answer:Final keyword in Java has three different uses: create constants,
prevent inheritance and prevent methods from being overridden.

Explain the difference between final, finally and finalize?
Answer:The final keyword can be used with class method and variable. A final class cannot be inherited, a final method cannot be overridden and a final variable cannot be reassigned.

       The finally keyword is used to create a block of code that follows a try block. A finally block of code always executes, whether or not an exception has occurred. Using a finally block allows you to run any cleanup-type statements that you just wish to execute, despite what happens within the protected code.

       The finalize() method is used just before object is destroyed and can be called just prior to object creation.

What is a constructor?
Answer:A constructor in Java is a special method that is used to initialize objects.
The constructor is called when an object of a class is created.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Answer:There can be more than one constructor defined in a class. This is called overloading the constructor.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Answer:

What is "this" keyword in Java? When would we use it?
Answer: "this" is used to refer current-class’s instance as well as static members.
An instance in when we can use "this" is when we use it to return the current class instance or
to refer instance variable of current class

What is "super" keyword in Java? What are some scenarios we would use it?
Answer:a reference variable which is used to refer immediate parent class object.
An instance of using a "super" can be used to refer immediate parent class instance variable.

What does JVM stand for?
Answer:Java Virtual Machine

Is JVM platform independent?
Answer:No, JVMs are not platform independent. In fact they are platform specific run time environment provided by
the vendor. Each platform (Windows, UNIX, Mac etc) has its own JVM to run Java applications.

What version of Java are you using?
Answer:java version "11.0.12" 2021-07-20 LTS

What does JAR stand for?
Answer:JAR stands for Java ARchive

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
Answer:The Java Runtime Environment (JRE) provides the libraries, the Java Virtual Machine, and other
components to run applets and applications written in the Java programming language.
Java Development Kit (JDK) is a software development environment which is used to develop Java applications
and applets. It physically exists. It contains JRE + development tools.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
Answer:The Java Runtime Environment (JRE) provides the libraries, the Java Virtual Machine, and other
components to run applets and applications written in the Java programming language.
JVM is the virtual machine that runs the Java bytecodes.

Explain the difference between compile-time and run-time?
Answer:Compile time is when the program is compiled; runtime is when it executes

What is heap?
Answer:Heap is the area of memory used to store objects instantiated by applications running on the JVM.

How does Java manage its memory?
Answer:Memory management is the process of allocation and de-allocation of objects, called Memory management.
In Java, memory management is done automatically using a system called Garbage Collector

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
Answer:
String is immutable which means that once it has been created it can't be changed
StringBuffer is a synchronized thread safe which means two threads can't call the methods of
 StringBuffer simultaneously.
 StringBuilder is non-synchronized not thread safe which means two threads can
 call the methods of StringBuilder simultaneously.

What is Singleton class?
Answer:A singleton class is a class that can have only one object at a time

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Answer:Serialization converting the state of an object into a byte stream.
Deserialization is the reverse process where the byte stream is used to recreate the actual Java object in memory.

Explain the difference between While and Do..While loops?
Answer:

What is Enum?
Answer:Enum is a special data type that enables for a variable to be a set of predefined constants

What is Iterator?
Answer:Iterator is an object that can be used to loop through collections, like ArrayList and HashSet.
It is called an "iterator" because "iterating" is the technical term for looping.

Which one will take more memory: an int or Integer? Why?
Answer:

Why are Strings considered to be immutable in Java?
Answer:The String is immutable in Java because of the security, synchronization and concurrency, caching, and
class loading.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
Answer:Constructor chaining is the process of calling one constructor from another constructor with
respect to current object.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
Answer:The only difference between serial and parallel garbage collector is that serial garbage collector
uses a single thread for garbage collection process while the parallel garbage collector uses multiple threads
for the garbage collection.

What does JIT stands for?
Answer:Just in Time

Explain the process of Java garbage collection?
Answer:Java garbage collection is the process by which Java programs perform automatic memory management.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
Answer:
You really can't force Java GC. The Java garbage collection algorithm are non-deterministic,
and while all of these methods can motivate the JVM to do GC, you can't actually force it.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Answer:Stack is a linear data structure whereas Heap is a hierarchical data structure.

What is reflection in Java and why is it useful?
Answer:Reflection is a feature in the Java programming language. It allows an executing Java program to examine
upon itself, and manipulate internal properties of the program.

What is multithreading in Java?
Answer:Multithreading refers to a process of executing two or more threads simultaneously
for maximum utilization of the CPU.

What is synchronization in Java?
Answer:is the capability to control the access of multiple threads to any shared resource.

What is a Framework?
Answer:frameworks are bodies of prewritten code used by developers to create apps using the Java programming language

What are the testing Frameworks available in Java?
Answer:Selenium and JUnit are 2 examples of Frameworks available in Java

What are jUnit and testNG?
Answer:JUnit is an open-source framework used to trigger and write tests.
TestNG is a Java-based framework that is an upgraded option for running tests.

What are the dependencies for this project?
Answer:Dependencies are the relationships of the preceding tasks to the succeeding tasks.

What is dependency injection in Java?
Answer:Dependency injection (DI) is the concept in which objects get other
 required objects from outside. DI can be implemented in any programming language.

Explain what static binding and dynamic binding is?
Answer:Static binding happens when all information needed to call a function is available at the compile-time.
Dynamic binding happens when the compiler cannot determine all information needed for a function call at compile-time.