***ANSWER ALL QUESTIONS BELOW***

Why do we need data structure?
Answer:Java programmers use data structures to store and organize data,

What are the various operations that can be performed on different data structures?
Answer:The most common ones are Traversal, Insertion, Deletion, Searching, Sorting and Merging.

When would we use data structures in the real world?
Answer:To implement back functionality in the internet browser.

What is an Array?
Answer:An array is a container object that holds a fixed number of values of a single type.

What is the difference between Array and ArrayList?
Answer:An array is basic functionality provided by Java. ArrayList is part of collection framework in Java.
Therefore, array members are accessed using [], while ArrayList has a set of methods to access elements and modify them

What is a LinkedList?
Answer:A linked list is a linear data structure, in which the elements are not stored at contiguous memory locations.

How is an Array different from LinkedList?
Answer:An array is a collection of elements of a similar data type.
A linked list is a collection of objects known as a node where node consists of two parts, i.e., data and address.

What is a Queue?
Answer:Queue represents a data structure designed to have elements
inserted at the end of the queue, and elements removed from the beginning of the queue.

What is a Stack (not Java memory - refers to data structure)?
Answer:Stack is a linear data structure which follows a particular order in which the operations are performed.

What is FIFO and LIFO?
Answer:FIFO is an abbreviation for first in, first out. It is a method for handling data structures where
the first element is processed first and the newest element is processed last and
LIFO is an abbreviation for Last in, first out is same as first in, last out (FILO).

Explain Big O Notation?
Answer:Big-O notation is the language we use for talking about how long an
algorithm takes to run (time complexity) or how much memory is used by an algorithm

What is the best case to search an element from an array?
Answer:The most common algorithm to search an element in an unsorted array is using a linear search,
checking element by element from the beginning to the end, this algorithm takes O(n) complexity.

What is the worst case to search an element from an array?
Answer:The worst case complexity is O(n/2) (equivalent to O(n)) when element is in the middle or not present in
the array. The best case complexity is O(1) when element is first or last element in the array.

Describe what a tree data structure is?
Answer:A tree is a hierarchical data structure defined as a collection of nodes.

Describe what a graph data structure is?
Answer:A graph data structure consists of a finite (and possibly mutable) set of vertices (also called nodes or points),
together with a set of unordered pairs of these vertices for an undirected graph or a set of ordered pairs for a
directed graph.

What is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
Answer:HashMap allows one null key and multiple null values whereas Hashtable doesn't allow any null key or value.

What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model
Answer:RDBMS = Array (i.e. Array of structures)
       Network data model = Graph.
       Hierarchical data model = Trees.

How do HashMaps work in Java? How do they store values, and when are they useful?
Answer:HashMap internally stores mapping in the form of Map. Entry object which contains both key and value object.
When you want to retrieve the object, you call the get() method and again pass the key object.

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When does it occur?
Answer:The ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException occurs whenever we are trying to access any item of an array at
an index which is not present in the array. In other words, the index may be negative or exceed the size of an array.

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
Answer:Create a new array of the same length and copy each element.

What is DFS and BFS?
Answer:BFS stands for Breadth First Search. DFS stands for Depth First Search. 2. BFS(Breadth First Search)
uses Queue data structure for finding the shortest path. DFS(Depth First Search) uses Stack data structure.

What is Recursion?
Answer:The process in which a function calls itself
directly or indirectly is called recursion and the corresponding function is called as recursive function.

What are linear and non-linear data Structures?
Answer:linear data structure, data elements are arranged in a linear order where each and every elements are attached
to its previous and next adjacent. In a non-linear data structure, data elements are attached in hierarchically manner.


Outline different sorting algorithms and their time complexities:
Quick Sort.
Bubble Sort.
Merge Sort.
Insertion Sort.

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a) In terms of Accessing elements:
  b) In terms of Inserting elements:
  c) In terms of Searching elements:
  d) In terms of Removing elements: